Each time more restrictions on the prescribing of opioids are implemented, the drug cartels applaud. These "voluntary" guidelines and mandated regulations are affecting ONLY law-abiding citizens, many of whom are vulnerable due to their disabilities and/or chronic illnesses. We have seen many suicides within the chronic pain community within the last couple of years - suicides which could have probably been avoided had the government (state and/or federal) stayed out of the exam room. People with horrific illnesses known to create severe, non-stop pain, have been stripped of medication that had been helping them function to the best of their physical ability. Part of that function includes merely getting out of bed. 

Tell me, how do you expect one to participate in physical therapy when they're in too much pain to even get out of bed? When was the last time you struggled to bathe, comb your hair, unload the dishwasher, tie your shoes, get into a car, walk to your mailbox, take your dog outside and other daily activities that most of us take for granted? Do you even understand the damage this is doing? People in pain are being forcibly tapered down to ineffective amounts or cut cold turkey from the medications they've been taking for years, sometimes decades - medications that were effective for them. 

Would you direct doctors to prescribe a "standard" dose of insulin to those with diabetes? What about anti-depressants? Why isn't there a "standard" dosage for antidepressants? I'll tell you why - because each and every patient (aka human just in case you have forgotten) is different. We all metabolize our medications differently. Some of us are ultra-rapid metabolizers while others are poor metabolizers. How about those whose bodies are unable to absorb the majority of this medication? 

Thanks to government infringement upon our rights to access - through a licensed doctor - safe, effective government-approved (along with natural botanicals that have been banned on state and federal level), people are suffering. They're not just suffering, they're committing suicide! We, including all of you reading this, are all just a heartbeat away from becoming the victim of a horrible car accident, rendering one completely disabled and in severe pain that is only relieved through opioid medication. 

Government bureaucrats, you'd better wake up and get your heads out of the sand - forcing those in severe pain to suffer needlessly is doing NOTHING to save an addict's life. Quit punishing those whose only fault is becoming ill, something that is NOT their fault, for the actions of a few. Implement common sense harm reduction programs, establish an affordable, accessible mental health system across this country, repeal these excessive restrictions on the prescribing of medications that can help reduce cravings and allow doctors to treat their patients in pain with whatever restores some function and quality of life and you will see a lower suicide rate, along with lower heroin/illicitly-produced fentanyl abuse and death rates.
