As a chronic pain patient of over 20 years, I have tried numerous treatments that were not effective prior to giving in and finally trying a weak opioid-based pain medication, which I have been on for over 11 years. My diagnoses include: fibromyalgia, a curved c-spine, along with bulged and herniated discs within the c-spine and an underactive thyroid (which makes absorbing medication and nutrients a challenge for my body). 

My head felt like it weighed 300 lbs while my neck and shoulders felt like they struggled to support that weight. Every morning, I felt as if I've been beaten with a baseball bat. I was in constant pain, which - prior to taking opioid-based medication - interfered greatly with my ability to function and have any quality of life. The fatigue associated with unrelieved chronic pain is overwhelming and too difficult to describe. Unrelieved chronic pain zaps any and all energy we have. Our brains and bodies use all of our energy to fight the pain. The opioid-based medication I've been taking for over 11 years (same medication, same dose, same amount) has reduced my pain while restoring some of my energy, so that I can actually live life and not just exist.

For the first five years of my journey as a chronic pain patient, my prior treatments before I was prescribed opioid-based medication included: months of physical therapy, traction, aqua therapy, yoga, talk therapy, chiropractic sessions, acupuncture, ultrasonic and manual massage, TENS Unit (which I still use at times), hyponosis, a series of three epidural steroid injections (which created even more permanent damage), among other treatments, which also included many different homeopathic remedies and diet modification (which I still currently use). 

The medications I tried included the following: various OTC NSAIDS (which I still take when needed); various prescription anti-inflammatories (Vioxx, Bextra - prior to the removal of those two medications - Celebrex, Mobic, Voltaren, DayPro); various anticonvulsants (gabapentin, Lyrica, Topomax); various muscle relaxers (Soma, Flexeril, Baclofen, Robaxin, Skelaxin); many different types of antidepressants (prozac, zoloft, paxil, celexa, lexapro, remeron, amitriptyline, trazedone, cymbalta, and effexor XR, which I am still currently using). 

My private insurance has refused to pay for my monthly weak opioid-based medication for the past three years - after having no issues paying for it each month for over 8 years. I'm very lucky that my pharmacy allows me to pay cash, as many pharmacies will refuse to allow their customers of years to do this with their opioid-based pain medication. I'm also very lucky that my medication allows me to work so that I can pay for it. In fact, because of the opioid-based medication I take on a regular basis, I'm able to work, exercise (including those I learned in PT), sleep, take care of my family, my house, and participate in this thing called *life.*

This war on opioids has turned into a war on the disabled, the vulnerable, the elderly, the very people who laid their lives down to defend our freedoms, along with many others who are able to work ONLY because their opioid-based medication reduces their pain to a tolerable level, often allowing them to work. The expenses we chronic pain patients incur just to receive a minimal amount of medication which helps us function and have a small semblance of life is outrageous. I can't even imagine the amount of time and costs that will both increase greatly if these regulations are implemented and - even worse - will happen to the most vulnerable of all, many who also have a very low, limited income.

Recent state medical board regulations and laws are forcing many of us into pain management, where we're treated like cattle and drained of every last cent we have, even after our primary doctors have been treating our chronic pain for many years due to this war that is not only on the disabled and chronically-ill but also on doctors who continue treating their pain patients with long-term opioid therapy. Many of us in pain management are forced to travel hundreds of miles on a monthly basis due to the diminishing pain management clinics, some of which are now adopting "no opioid prescribing" policies. And you want us to do this more than once a month? Seriously?

Most of us in pain management are forced to receive costly injections which aren't even approved by the FDA and often not effective (and in some cases, create further damage) so that we're not in danger of being dismissed from the pain clinic. This is not only very costly to us, the government and our private insurance companies but also extremely destructive toalready-broken bodies. We're forced to have expensive - and very humiliating - drug tests that are often not paid for by insurance many times a year. 

Some of us are forced into taking medications with horrific side effects and often make us feel flat and unemotional or suicidal, as prescribing psychiatric medications to those without psychiatric illnesses can be dangerous yet is usually one of the first medications prescribed to those in pain because the one class of medication approved to reduce physical pain has became even more demonized than ever. Many of us are degraded at our monthly doctor visits, sneered at, laughed at, talked about, thought of as "junkies" by those who are supposed to be caring for us. All of this just because we want some relief from the pain.

The anxiety that most of us experience prior- to our doctor appointments (often on a monthly basis) and get our medication filled is undescrible. Again, I can't even imagine the anxiety we'd experience if these regulations are implemented. The stigma we go through on a monthly basis due to judgemental nurses, doctors, pharmacists, pharmacy techs is humiliating to say the least and already too much. We're often told the medication is "not in stock" or the pharmacist is "not comfortable" with filling that type of prescription. Dealing with the *pharmacy crawl* every month is difficult enough.

Wouldn't it would be much easier and cheaper to buy illicitly-produced opioids (heroin and illicitly produced fentanyl analogs) off the streets or find some relief with alcohol or - even worse - find that relief through suicide? Is that what you're wanting? More drug addiction, more suicides, more alcoholism, more people who are no longer able to work and is forced to file for disability? Because that's what will happen if you push these regulations through. Mark my words - implement these and watch lives fall apart. Since when was merely wanting some relief from severe pain that plagues us every second of the day and will be with us until we die become such a shameful act? 